# Rodun

Rodun (from the Icelandic word Röðun, with meanings pointing towards optimization and arrangement) is a C++ desktop application designed to help optimize the use of materials by planning cuts based on user-provided specifications. This tool is particularly useful for industries or individuals working with raw materials like wood or metal, where minimizing waste is critical.

## Features

- Input material dimensions and cutting specifications.
- Generate optimized cutting plans to minimize waste.
- User-friendly desktop interface.
- Supports multiple material types and configurations.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- A C++ compiler that supports C++20 or later.
- A build system like `CMake` (recommended).
- A compatible operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sethbr11/materials_optimizer.git
   cd materials_optimizer
   ```

2. Initialize and update submodules:

   ```bash
   git submodule update --init --recursive
   ```

3. Make sure libHaru is installed on the system:

   ```bash
   brew install libharu
   ```

4. Build the application:

   ```bash
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   make
   ```

5. Run the application:

   ```bash
   ./materials_optimizer
   ```

6. If you are creating installers for the application, make sure you have create-dmg installed:

   ```bash
   brew install create-dmg
   ```

### Usage

1. Launch the application.
2. Enter dimensions, lengths, part numbers, and quantities of the parts you wish to cut from the raw materials.
3. View the optimized cutting plan generated by the application.
4. Click "Generate PDF" for a comprehensive diagram.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details.
